 sudo -i -u postgres - commect to post gress 
 
 If you use column aliases in the SELECT clause, you cannot use them in the WHERE clause.
 
 Note that you can use the != operator and <> operator interchangeably because they are equivalent.
 
 IN	Return true if a value matches any value in a list
 
 BETWEEN	Return true if a value is between a range of values
 
 IS NULL	Return true if a value is NULL
 
 SELECT select_list
FROM table_name
LIMIT row_count OFFSET row_to_skip; here you would enter the amont of numbers you want to skip

The FETCH clause is functionally equivalent to the LIMIT clause
SELECT
    film_id,
    title
FROM
    film
ORDER BY
    title 
FETCH FIRST ROW ONLY;

for like     Percent sign ( %) matches any sequence of zero or more characters.
    Underscore sign ( _)  matches any single character.
	
inner join compares the values in two table and if the values are equal it creates that contains colum from both table .

 In the left join context, the first table is called the left table and the second table is called the right table. 	
 
 the left join takes the left table looks where the values are eqaul to the left table if not if creates a empty row  for the set.
 left outter join will select rows that dont have a matthing row is the where clas
 
 The full outer join or full join returns a result set that contains all rows from both left and right tables, 
 with the matching rows from both sides if available. In case there is no match, the columns of the table will be filled with NULL.
 
 The PostgreSQL ANY operator compares a value to a set of values returned by a subquery.
 he EXISTS operator is a boolean operator that tests for existence of rows in a subquery.
 
 INSERT INTO links (url, name)
VALUES('http://www.postgresql.org','PostgreSQL') 
RETURNING id; -- to get the insert id and the * to get everthing that was inserted.

DELETE FROM table_name1
USING table_expression
WHERE condition
RETURNING returning_columns;

create function
selection function name 